README.md, before:

<a href="https://pkpdapp.herokuapp.com">
    <img src="./pkpdapp/pkpdapp/static/images/logo_pkpdapp_with_text_no_boundary.svg" alt="PKPDApp logo" align="right">
</a>

[![Unit tests on multiple python versions](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/workflows/Unit%20tests%20(python%20versions)/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/actions)
[![Unit tests on multiple operating systems](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/workflows/Unit%20tests%20(OS%20versions)/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp)

# PKPDApp

PKPDApp is an open source web-based application to explore, analyse and model the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of chemical compounds. The app is currently under heavy development, however a preliminary version is being deployed with Heroku and can be found under https://pkpdapp.herokuapp.com/.

## Installation - development

If you are interested in developing PKPDApp with us, or just run the app locally, you can clone the repository and follow the installation instructions below.

### Django backend

1. Install sundials
    - Ubuntu-latest:
    ```bash
    apt-get install libsundials-dev
    ```
    - MacOS-latest:
    ```bash
    brew install sundials
    ```
    - Windows-latest:
    Sundials will be installed automatically by installing the app.


5. Set environment variables

  - Edit the `.env` file in the root of the repository and edit the environment
  variables to correspond to your particular setup.

6. Install requirements

  - Create a new virtual environment (optional) then install the requirements

```bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. Create database

```bash
cd pkpdapp
python manage.py migrate
```

5. Run local server

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

6. (Optional) Create admin user

```bash
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

### React frontend

Running the frontend will require a local installation of Node.js. On Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, 
for example, you can install using `snap`

```bash
sudo snap install node --classic
```

It is also useful to install the `yarn` package manager

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Navigate to the `frontend/` directory and install the Node.js dependencies

```bash
cd frontend
yarn install
```

You can run the frontend using 

```bash
yarn start
```

You should be able to see the pkpd web app at [127.0.0.1:3000](127.0.0.1:3000).


## Installation - docker with nginx and gunicorn

Alternatively you can build a docker image and run the image inside the container with commands below.

```bash
$ docker build -t pkpdapp .
```

Run the server

```bash
$ docker run -it -p 8020:8020 \
                 -e PORT=8020 \
                 -e DEBUG=1 \
                 -e SECRET_KEY=aLargeRandomSecretKey \
                 -e DJANGO_SUPERUSER_USERNAME=admin \
                 -e DJANGO_SUPERUSER_PASSWORD=sekret1 \
                 -e DJANGO_SUPERUSER_EMAIL=admin@example.com \
                 -e EMAIL_HOST=in-v3.mailjet.com \
                 -e EMAIL_PORT=25 \
                 -e EMAIL_HOST_USER=email_username \
                 -e EMAIL_HOST_PASSWORD=email_password \
                 -e DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL=sender@mydomain.com \
                 pkpdapp
```

You should be able to see the pkpd web app at [127.0.0.1:8020](127.0.0.1:8020).

## Code testing

We run a range of tests each time a commit is pushed to an open pull request
using Github Actions. Passing these tests is prerequisite for merging a pull
request. Some of these can be run locally as described below:

- copyright tests: `python run-tests.py --copyright`
- code style: `flake8`
- unit tests: `python manage.py test` runs everything; to run a single test in
a file (say) called `test_models.py` use
`python manage.py test pkpdapp.tests.test_models`
- code coverage tests: can't be done locally

# Running the cache

Install the cache using

```bash
$ sudo apt install memcached
```

Run memcached using

```bash
$ memcached -p 11211
```

## License
PKPDApp is fully open source. For more information about its license, see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

#187 multi-stage python builder, docker-compose works ok, not sure about heroku

README.md, after:

<a href="https://pkpdapp.herokuapp.com">
    <img src="./pkpdapp/pkpdapp/static/images/logo_pkpdapp_with_text_no_boundary.svg" alt="PKPDApp logo" align="right">
</a>

[![Unit tests on multiple python versions](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/workflows/Unit%20tests%20(python%20versions)/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/actions)
[![Unit tests on multiple operating systems](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/workflows/Unit%20tests%20(OS%20versions)/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/actions)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/pkpdapp-team/pkpdapp)

# PKPDApp

PKPDApp is an open source web-based application to explore, analyse and model the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of chemical compounds. The app is currently under heavy development, however a preliminary version is being deployed with Heroku and can be found under https://pkpdapp.herokuapp.com/.

## Installation - development

If you are interested in developing PKPDApp with us, or just run the app locally, you can clone the repository and follow the installation instructions below.

### Django backend

1. Install sundials
    - Ubuntu-latest:
    ```bash
    apt-get install libsundials-dev
    ```
    - MacOS-latest:
    ```bash
    brew install sundials
    ```
    - Windows-latest:
    Sundials will be installed automatically by installing the app.


5. Set environment variables

  - Edit the `.env` file in the root of the repository and edit the following environment
  variables to correspond to your particular setup. The most important
  variables to alter are those corresponding to secret keys and passwords, others
  you can probably leave as-is.

6. Install requirements

  - Create a new virtual environment (optional) then install the requirements

```bash
python3 -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

5. Create database

```bash
cd pkpdapp
python manage.py migrate
```

5. Run local server

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

6. (Optional) Create admin user

```bash
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

### React frontend

Running the frontend will require a local installation of Node.js. On Ubuntu 20.04 LTS, 
for example, you can install using `snap`

```bash
sudo snap install node --classic
```

It is also useful to install the `yarn` package manager

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Navigate to the `frontend/` directory and install the Node.js dependencies

```bash
cd frontend
yarn install
```

You can run the frontend using 

```bash
yarn start
```

You should be able to see the pkpd web app at [127.0.0.1:3000](127.0.0.1:3000).


## Installation - production

Alternatively you can build a docker image and run the image inside the container with commands below.

```bash
$ docker-compose build
$ docker-compose up
```

You should be able to see the web application at [127.0.0.1](127.0.0.1).

## Code testing

We run a range of tests each time a commit is pushed to an open pull request
using Github Actions. Passing these tests is prerequisite for merging a pull
request. Some of these can be run locally as described below:

- copyright tests: `python run-tests.py --copyright`
- code style: `flake8`
- unit tests: `python manage.py test` runs everything; to run a single test in
a file (say) called `test_models.py` use
`python manage.py test pkpdapp.tests.test_models`
- code coverage tests: can't be done locally

# Running the cache

Install the cache using

```bash
$ sudo apt install memcached
```

Run memcached using

```bash
$ memcached -p 11211
```

## License
PKPDApp is fully open source. For more information about its license, see [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md).
